From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


hello hello welcome welcome back welcome
back okay so today we're going to talk
about a really interesting topic well
this is actually potentially really
foundational for what the qualia
research institute is doing this year
and that is well going
from neur activity to field
topology and back essentially how
coupling kernels can shape Consciousness
uh you know this is a very important
topic because it's uh based on a lot of
research at qri you know a lot of uh our
Retreat outputs our research outputs and
it's something that is essentially
guiding a lot of our uh strategy for
where to um invest the resources in
order to you know understand
Consciousness understand how to modulate
it develop neurotechnology you know even
tackle things like chronic pain or how
to induce beautiful kind of like
meditation States in a accelerated but
uh healthy and Wholesome Way so you know
it's very very Central to kind of like a
lot of the ways in which we're thinking
about Consciousness these days um and
for that reason you know this will
probably be kind of like a big overview
a
conversational casual in a sense
overview of this whole topic um and
there's going to be a lot more content
about this uh in aot lot of different
ways from uh you know simulations to
technology to yeah actual like you know
presentations in academic venues
so before I get started um I want to
point out yes you know to carry me
through the qual of the day
is Rose
tulsy tulsy Sweet Rose uh caffeine free
herbal tea it's
a quite delicious I mean it really
definitely does have kind of like a Rosy
quality and uh if you know me and my
tastes in Scent qualia you know you will
know that yes some of my all-time
favorites include you know Bergamot and
and Rose uh and so I love rose tea as
well as Earl Gray because of the the
burgot component
um yeah I mean Rose is beautiful for a
lot of reasons um in particular it has
kind of this fil ethal uh alcohol uh
component which is kind of like
remarkably soft in a way that is kind of
the synesthetic equivalent of you know
effectively the um kind of like feathery
or the um um very very soft aspect of a
of a of a rose petal
um yeah that but you know in in in the
scent scent domain okay so anyway anyway
I recommend uh tulc Sweet Rose uh for
you to try the other thing I want to
mention you know and this is very
important um is that we're revamping our
um the qualia research institute Discord
and so I'm actually going to be doing a
live Q&A in two days from now so today
is February 20th um so on February 22nd
which is a Saturday at noon Pacific time
I'm going to be doing doing a yeah
Discord live Q&A so I'm going to add a
link in the description essentially the
the Discord invite and um you know I I
recommend joining you will yeah
essentially find likeminded individuals
and I know there's a lot of really cool
interesting people uh here in this
community people who watch these videos
and comment um I'm often yeah quite
Overjoyed with the you know fascinating
content uh of the comments that you guys
provide whether it is you know
spontaneous tree reports or you know
object level analysis of what I'm
talking about or you know just like nice
encouragement I all of it I I very much
appreciated um and yeah in the Discord
um I think like it's it's a place where
we can actually kind of like start
building a a long-term Community here um
you know if you don't follow me on
Twitter uh yet well I recommend you do
not that you should get Twitter that's
not necessarily good for your for your
mental health and uh you know longterm
productivity but but if you already have
a Twitter account yeah definitely follow
me on Twitter I'm alj calyo um yeah X
uh.com I guess like formerly Twitter um
we also actually have like a Facebook
group um which a lot of kind of like OG
people um and it's uh called qual
Computing networking and uh we do have a
bit of a kind of like entry bar so we
definitely ask that you answer the
questions you know to be uh admitted
into the club as it were um you know
essentially to keep the conversation um
yeah very high quality and uh actually
build a community of people who like
actually really passionate about these
and and and know quite a bit about this
so you know Community
announcements okay
so I have been kept quite busy in a
number of fronts I've been traveling a
lot um I went to Amsterdam in January
1/17
