From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


for about two weeks um in collaboration
with uh people from the Cyber delic
Nexus uh and I'm going to mention them
you know by name at the end of the video
um but you know we we we have a a
recording of a presentation I gave uh in
Amsterdam um I mean essentially about
like yeah new research paradigms for
making sense of psychedelic States Of
Consciousness um in a quantitative
algorithmic way so expect a video about
that is going to be I think yeah I think
it's really high quality that one in
particular because it's very
professionally recorded and um I thought
the the content was particularly good uh
as far as yeah qri content is concerned
uh I worked very hard on making that
presentation really really high quality
um for you to learn a lot um also you
know earlier this week I actually had a
podcast with h Kurt from theories of
everything uh in YouTube and uh that's
GNA come out I believe in a a week or
two so definitely be in the lookout for
that uh I also recorded last week a
conversation with Jos abach um who is
yeah essentially currently you know he's
a famous computationalist and a very
very bright guy and also I really really
like him as a friend um you know very
very sensitive soul and uh yeah really
appreciated that conversation and uh
yeah that's also going to come out
pretty soon um and more content you know
also recorded a video with um um Carl
Heiden smth uh and other people
essentially in kind of like the sphere
of people who are essentially trying to
um formalize the study of uh
psychedelics and taking them very
seriously in yeah legal and ethical ways
um we recorded yeah some some content in
Amsterdam so anyway and and that's just
the tip of the asberg you know we've
been busy doing a bunch of other things
as well u i will actually just mention
very quickly um you know we also
recently published a very thorough
analysis of essentially yeah these
ethical tragedy which is uh cluster
headaches um and the potential for DMT
to
effectively uh abort and and prevent
future cluster headaches and we think
that yeah as far as you know reducing
suffering at scale this is probably one
of the top interventions and the reason
why in effective altruism this is not
taking more seriously is because the you
know the loss function the way that
optimization cost prioritization triage
is done is by trying to maximize quality
adjusted life years or at least reduce
the amount of quality lust adjusted life
years that is lost because of different
medical conditions not by making a you
know good faith effort to actually
quantify suffering because if you do
that and then you try to reduce
suffering as much as possible then all
of a sudden the you know exponential
nature of the intensity of suffering as
a function of kind of the the reported
value in a pain skill actually becomes
really relevant so anyway you know it
turns out that if you want to minimize
suffering you shouldn't try to minimize
the kind of like average paint score no
no no you need to actually raise the
paint use the pain scores as an exponent
you know in in an exponential scale and
then try to minimize you know the
expected value of you know the aggregate
of all of those values which
essentially you know to the extent that
you care about suffering specifically um
it turns out that it prioritizes the
extreme levels of suffering out there um
and uh you know DMT seems to be really
effective for aborting cluster
headaches um so I don't think it's an
exaggeration to say that it might be one
of the if not the most cost-effective
way of reducing suffering in the world
if we figure out how to uh legalize and
bring access to this therapy to you know
people worldwide who suffer from this
condition if I live a a legacy of my
life as it we and the work at Q and it's
that you know I would be very satisfied
with what I have done in the world so um
you know please you know support us in
any way you can we're going to be
writing an open letter uh to essentially
push for legislation in this domain and
um yeah you know donations uh you know
moral support you know signing the
letter Etc all of that super super
welcome at the same time also um just
this week yeah with alfredo par somebody
who have been collaborating with at qri
we also released an analysis of kidney
stones and uh how chanka Pedra which is
a yeah sou American herb uh as a
preventative as a prophylactic may also
be one of these like ridiculously good
kind of like top interventions for
minimizing suffering so uh you know yeah
if if you're at risk of kidney stones
2/17
