From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


and most people are you know in some
places in the world the incidence is
going as high as 25% uh you know
lifetime prevalence um yeah actually
probably taking uh chanap Pedra in a
preventative fashion you know maybe once
a week might actually be a a massively
coste effective way of reducing
suffering okay so those are yeah some
kind of like important announcements you
know Community wise you know ethics wise
big picture
now let's get on to the content so the
title of this uh video you know is the
same title as the latest uh qualia
Computing post which is from neural
activity to field topology and there's
quite a bit of content to go through um
and I'm just going to go you know one
point after another and there's
essentially 10 points um and I'm going
to explain them okay so you know very
you know be before I kind of like dive
into the details I just want to say you
know the very very big picture here is I
think yeah that this Paradigm might be
able to
explain why different substances produce
radically you know radically different
effects in Consciousness where it's not
only a matter of like well this
substance makes you know your visual
field more bright or like this one makes
it a little bit wavy or something like
that but he's like no like why is there
such a thing as like DMT quote unquote
the spirit model molecule that you take
and you feel fragmented into a thousand
different components and it it it sort
of like feels that you're contacting
other reals and other you know entities
or embodying other entities inside you
etc etc and then there's a completely
different experience by an analog you
know very similar molecule called five
amuno DMT which they call the the god
molecule which if you consume if you
vaporize and and and consume it it gives
rise to kind of this found feeling of
undeniable Oneness as as it were an
extreme Simplicity and kind of like
getting in touch with a with a ground of
being and and this sense of you know
profound Simplicity mixed with profound
intensity you know very very extremely
different experiences by just tweaking a
molecule a little bit so what what's
going on okay so at a you know a very
very high level picture here is that
we think that different substances might
be modulating through you know a a
complicated ultimately but tractable
causal chain the coupling dynamics of
oscillators in the body in particular
something like electric oscillators
although I actually will leave that kind
of like a somewhat agnostic about what
exactly is oscillating in the body but
you know things would fit pretty well if
it turns out it you know it's modulating
kind of macroscopic electric
oscillations which in turn because of
things such as like the you know the
right hand rule of
electromagnetism electric oscillations
cause vortices you know in the magnetic
field and because as we hypothesized at
qri you know this is actually something
I I came up with a good number of years
ago uh and and we have polish in
Academia um we we we suspect that you
know the the phenomenal boundaries you
know what distinguishes one person from
another is the topology of the
electromagnetic field effectively
creating looping structures that have an
inside and an outside with a actual kind
of like holistic causal effects
something that Evolution would have a
reason to recruit you know for for
causal reasons for information
processing reasons in other words you
know we we we all of a sudden have a a
story for how is it possible that
different substances can modulate you
know not only neural activity
but field topology the the boundaries
inside you and outside of you the the
way in which you're connected to the
universe so it's really profound I mean
it it really cuts to kind of the these
very deep ontological questions of like
what separates you from the rest of the
universe and and and
why something like a drug would actually
mess with that which is kind of
incredible right it's like the reported
effects of something like fiveo DMT are
just not credible unless you have
actually experimented with the substance
or you know you trust whoever actually
is reporting it just sounds too
extraordinary you know too
extreme how can a drug do this okay so
we're going to explain it we're going to
explain it or at least provide an an
outline of a conceptually satisfying you
know
um set of building blocks that that that
build up to something that makes sense
3/17
