From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


hopefully so okay the first thing that I
want to say is talk about the coupling
kernel okay so what is a coupling
kernel you know this is something that
came up um when I was uh trying to come
up with a way to interact with systems
of coupled oscillators uh in a you know
reliable predictable way um without
having to kind of
like you know train sophisticated you
know neural networks uh controls systems
or mechanisms um or or really for that
matter you know to to kind of like hard
code specific geometries of the network
for particular control systems like no
no no I wanted a way of interfacing with
a system of coupled oscillators that was
very natural and and very very bottom up
but reliable and uh and predictable so
what I you know ultimately arrived at by
you know coding dozens of systems of
coupled oscillators and and and trying
to wire them in different ways um was
you know the first thing that that had
really emerged as kind of like something
that had a clear utility and clearly was
kind of like starting to replicate some
yeah psychedelic phenomenology to some
extent was um kuramoto oscillators and
I'm not going to get into the the
mathematical details uh there uh
although it's not very complicated but I
I don't think it is necessary for this
conceptual kind of like
overview um and then geometri them okay
so so in in a traditional kind of like
system of couple dos lers at least in
the the classic formulation of of
kuramoto oscillators um what you have is
kind of like an all to--all relationship
where like every oscillator is connected
with every other oscillator and then um
they're all trying to be in Phase with
each other you see and and and when
they're out of phase with each other um
there's kind of like an error you know
they're all kind of like moving around
in a circle or you could even think of
it as for example like metronomes in a
in a table or something like that maybe
they're like tuned to slightly different
natural frequencies okay so so they they
actually want to oscillate at slightly
different speeds so to speak but because
they all belong to the same table you
know they're all on the same ground as
it were there's tiny vibrations that
that are actually shared between them
and then what happens is that with those
tiny vibrations they are kind of like
pulling and pushing each other and and
so when they're out of phase you know
the the more out of phase they are the
the more there's kind of like a a
correcting you know mechanism that is
realigning them so in in in the classic
formulation of kuramoto systems uh you
know they're all connected to each other
and equally connected and then there's
yeah some fascinating you know
mathematics that you can show
analytically uh there's like some some
convergence conditions that that under
certain circumstances all of the
oscillators actually you know click
together as it were or they they all
kind of end up being dragged Along by
you know what's kind of the the mean of
the phase of all of the oscillators um
you know that's a really interesting
system and and again like what's nice
about it is it's very tractable you know
it is not even trying to kind of uh
accurately model um some you know
physical systems of oscillators is more
kind of like a mathematical abstraction
that just works very
nicely but you know in in in the realm
of phenomenology we're talking about you
know these very complex networks you
know like your visual cortex your your
vasculature your um somatosensory cortex
you know you have a lot of different
networks and connected in different ways
and so you know it's not the case that
all of the oscillators are connected to
each other that is not like the wiring
right so instead is actually some kind
of like geometric
embedding you know all of these
oscillators are in some kind of
geometric space and then whether they're
two you know two oscillators are
connected or not it's it's kind of like
a function of their distance you know in
in some simple systems and you know most
of the simulations you know in this
particular context are like that they're
you know kind of like toy models for
explanatory
purposes they're might be like a simple
rule something like you know if if two
oscillators are within a certain
distance then there is a connection
between them and if they're further away
than than that distance then they're not
connected um so in that way you know
you're kind of like represent a
geometric space in terms of some kind of
like connectivity uh between systems of
4/17
