From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


coupled
ulators well uh what I kind of like
stumbled upon by by playing with these
systems was well maybe we can actually
modulate What's called the the the
coupling constant the between Queen
oscillators at different
distances and maybe that way we can gain
some control over kind of like the
overall you know emergent oscillations
that happen at at the microscopic level
and uh and so you know it looks
something like this
where okay let's see if this
works yeah yeah I mean in in some of the
simulations that you will
see uh you know for any given oscillator
you know there's a if you look at
oscillators a distance one from it
especially if it's a let's say Square
lattice um you know there's going to be
four oscillators at that distance and so
there's a lever that you know depending
on the value that you you you set it up
at is going to modulate a positive or
negative coefficient for the coupling
constant for oscillators at that
distance in this case there's going to
be just four um I guess like yeah for
clar
or for those who are curious this is is
called Manhattan distance which is um
you sort of like add up independently
kind of like the distance in the x- axis
and the y- axis they call it Manhattan
distance because it's sort of like the
number of blocks that you would have to
kind of uh go from one place to another
in a c grid you know so so you know you
don't care about like kind of like the
diagonal distance you care about like
the you know the streets and avenues
added together um
and then at a distance two you know from
yeah this let's say intersection uh it
starts to actually form kind of like a
DI on the shape you know where now you
have like eight oscillators at distance
two and there's going to be a lever that
modulates the coupling constant to those
eight oscillators and then there's going
to be a 12 at distance three you know
and 16 at distance four and so on and so
forth so the you know the central idea
of a coupling
kernel is a system of levers that
modulate the coupling constant of the
oscillators for each of those different
you know Manhattan distances well it
doesn't have to be Manhattan you know
this is just in a square grid if we're
talking about a 3D continuous space and
a lot of our simulations are like that
then you know it can be ukian distance
it can also be like distance in other
geometries you know it could be on the
surface of a sphere you know it could be
in a hyperbolic space you know this is
very General but you know for the sake
of Simplicity in a square lattice we're
talking about you know X+ Y in terms of
like the the streets and
avenues um well if you play with this
system you will kind of like
realize that uh and this is the the
second point or point one you know point
zero is what is a coupling kernel point1
uh is um yeah uh in the article coupling
kernels as neural global Bridges so let
me get here well even before I go there
I'm going to explain briefly what a a
small world network is because there's
another lever that we usually also
include um and uh you know at the
beginning of a simulation essentially
what we do is like for every given
oscillator we choose two other
oscillators at random in the entire grid
and we wire them to it and then the
small world lever is going to be
modulating effectively the coupling
constant to those two at random which I
mean it's effectively it's a random
Network and we call it small world
because uh you know this is um what is
very well known you know that like the
the the social distance between people
you know it's actually pretty small on
average you know between you and the
Queen Elizabeth I mean the classic
example or you know anybody in the world
um chances are you know somebody who
knows somebody who knows somebody who
knows somebody who knows that person you
know like the the number of hops that
you need to take between you and that
person usually doesn't go above six you
know it there's such a thing that's
called that is called the diameter of a
graph which is like what is the the
longest shortest path essentially what
is what is the pair of nodes such that
the shortest path is the longest that is
the diameter of a graph and you know
what happens is that yeah if you have a
kind of Network that is geometric where
noes are connected to you know their
neighbors or neighbors within a certain
distance um you know the diameter is
very large you know because you actually
5/17
