From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


have to kind of like walk in that world
you know embedded in a geometric space
and you know maybe in the medieval time
you know or earlier you know before
there were kind of like these long roads
or like long distances that people were
traveling yes you know the social
distance between individuals was like
pretty large in a way but not anymore no
I mean there was kind of like a
threshold in in in in Social Evolution
where enough people were kind of like
making long trips that is effectively
kind of like adding this random Network
on top of a geometric Network um and uh
when you do that then uh you you shrink
the diameter uh and you turn it into a
small world so you don't actually need
many random connections there's kind of
like a threshold a percentage of random
connections where
the the the diameter completely
collapses and then like everybody is
right next to everybody else um
so you know that's one one important
kind of like way of modulating the
activity of the system of coupled
oscillators is adding this small world
Network which is a you know effectively
a way of either scrambling the activity
when uh the you know coupling
coefficient is negative uh in the small
world Network or a way of as
synchronizing everybody when it is
positive but you don't have to worry
about it you know that's that's just
kind of like a hack
to significantly increase the state
space of uh configurations accessible
with this lever system um but uh you
know just let's just like Focus for a
moment on on on actually just the um the
the geometric components you know the
coupling one coupling two coupling three
and four and uh you know early on one
one thing that I did was apply what is
called a discrete cosine transform on
this system um even just on a on a flat
system and uh as you can see in the
article you know what what happens is
that well the discrete [ __ ] transform is
kind of like a fouryear transform I mean
effectively what you're doing is like um
showing in what way kind of like waves
of different uh spatial frequencies I
mean I guess for for context for those
who don't know um a wave with a low
spatial frequency is kind of like a wave
that is very large a wave with a high
spatial frequencies is a very kind of
like um intricate detailed wave okay so
it turns out that you know you can
essentially tune into Global resonant
modes of the entire system of coupled
oscillators by just modulating the
coefficients of the coupling kernel you
know like what is the coupling of uh
coupling 1 2 3 and
four this was to me very intuitive you
know um but then it turns out that you
know you can actually rigorously uh
prove this to be the case uh with a
techniques from uh you know a field
that's called a spectral graph Theory
where you effectively kind of like apply
uh filters on a graph uh for kind of
like different distances um I'm not
going to abore you with the
technicalities but but you know
effectively what's called yeah the
various powers of the plon of the system
effectively will be modulating the the
amplitude for you know different
resonant modes of different spatial
frequencies and so it turns out you know
that we just kind of like stumbled Upon
This Way of modulating the amplitude of
the
energy for waves of different spatial
frequencies which it's actually kind of
mind-blowing because you know systems of
coupled oscillators they they're
considered you know these very complex
systems you know they're considered
these very intractable hard to predict
you know dynamic systems and the fact
you know that you can actually tune into
Global resonant modes of them just by
modulating you know the amplitude of a
coupling kernel is is utterly
fascinating you know it's it gives you a
handle with predictable effects and
predictable resonance effects that are
holistic and global of the entire brain
or the entire you know graph in this
case
um by just kind of like modulating the
amplitude on levers so you know that was
uh pretty mind-blowing and pretty
important for for me kind of like a
milestone really kind of like how to
make sense of uh complex you know
systems of coupled
oscillators and uh well it turns out
that you know I'm not the first one to
to realize this in fact you know down
the line uh actually no November of last
year at a work retreat in in tempos SL
um with other people at qri yeah we we
we encountered a paper by um Marco Akil
6/17
