From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


who um um you know I went to his thesis
defense and he presented at the
Amsterdam qri Meetup so thank you very
much and that was actually super awesome
this is uh his thesis which he defended
last month uh his PSD thesis called
levels of vision um which you know he
touches upon some of these uh there's
another key piece of the puzzle which is
called divisive normalization which I'll
I'm going to explain in a moment but uh
he developed a a a method uh called
chaos with two s's um which uh
effectively is a way of analyzing the
the resonant modes of a brain in terms
of modulating kind of something that is
very equip mathematically equivalent to
something like a coupling kernel
although he doesn't call it exactly that
way
but um you know to me that was kind of
like mind-blowing it was like oh my gosh
actually in Academia they're arriving at
something quite similar from a very
different perspective you know because
from our perspective we're taking you
know phenomenology seriously you know
we're trying to replicate the the
features of different um you know exotic
States Of Consciousness U by using like
you know graph Theory and dynamic
systems and so on and and in this case
you know they're primarily actually not
so much actually trying to rep replicate
phenomenology they're trying to
replicate psychophysical measurements
and neuroscientific measurements you
know neuroimaging data sets uh empirical
so it is kind of like the objective you
know uh scientific measurements of the
brain from a third person
perspective all of a sudden arriving and
converging into very similar ideas and
very similar models to you know Q who is
effectively kind of like championing
taking phenomenology seriously and you
know bringing you know Advanced
meditators and and and physicists and
mathematicians and visual artists um to
you know depict and make sense of exotic
States Of Consciousness and and so yeah
chaos effectively yeah kind of like
converge in in in very similar idea so
just to
recap um cobbling kernels are kind of
this bridge you know between neural
activity and kind of like global global
activity now the other thing which is is
very relevant from from Marco is a
divisive normalization um you know it's
it's a paradigm that he worked on I
don't think he developed although he or
he invented but like he he definitely
has kind of like developed and and
furthered quite a bit and that is this
notion that you know the probability for
a given oscillator in the brain you know
populations of neurons not not
individual neurons but essentially
populations of neurons um to to kind of
like oscillate is a function of both of
the kind of like sensory inputs that to
go into them and the activity uh in in
the surrounding of them especially when
you have kind of this like layered
system uh where you know you have like
several layers of neurons um where you
know there's kind of like int layer
connections you know lateral connections
as it were and then connections between
the layers uh divisive normalization is
effectively a mathematical technique to
to explain how um the activity of one
layer triggers activity in the next
layer and then you know you can repeat
that over again over and over and and
the really cool thing here you know
without making you know precise claims
or connections between the parameters of
the divisive normalization and effects
of different substances um although we
want to get there you know we're not
there but like we want to get there and
we we're crafting studies to eventually
actually be able to get there and
publish about that but you know just
conceptually you know I think this is
conceptually sound
that all of a sudden the picture starts
to become crisp where you have kind of
these lowlevel what they call canonical
competition this low-level method for um
making sense of how like contexual
activity in populations of neurons
translates you know into things like
traveling waves and and and and dynamic
system Behavior which then through
something like a coupling kernel or or
chaos can be understood as these like
Global resonant modes of the entire
system and so oh my gosh you know the
brain starts to look more tractable you
know it starts to makes more make more
sense and so um you know I think that's
wonderful you know like I highly
recommend yeah diving into divisive
normalization and and and Chaos uh in
maril work you know he he's building on
top of also you know work by morn
Kringle Bach and senin atasoy um um and
7/17
