From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


uh you know that that that whole kind of
like tradition of in a sense making
sense of the brain as a dynamic system
with turbulent processes and resonant
modes you know it's is starting to cash
out into things that are very concrete
and maybe even insightful at the level
of phenomenology okay so the next point
is geometric constraints as uh
modulators for coupling
effects h so this is more uniquely kind
of qri as um reflection or
Insight um and uh as you will see you
know if you have this kind of like
hierarchical system of coupled
oscillators like individual cortex um a
particular coupling kernel will have
predictable effects um but those effects
are going to be somewhat different then
if if the you know the network topology
and geometry is more simple like just a
a simple grid for example so the the
main point uh I want to kind of like
highlight in this context is how um the
N Network
architecture comes together with a
coupling kernel in order to you know
together give rise to the emergent
Dynamic effects that uh take place um in
other words you know maybe a substance
is effectively modulating the couple and
Cur
but then the effect that it has in the
body you know in your Consciousness
depends on the network geometry the
network architecture that it is
affecting um and uh you know one very
important kind of like takeaway from
this
point is that you know a a psychedelic
effect you know the effect of LSD you
know let's say the the effect of
masculine the effect of DMT etc etc may
actually be very s
you know it may be through a process of
divisive normalization that it
instantiates a coupling kernel and then
that affects different systems
differently depending on its Network
architecture but then it's very
predictable you know
you let me give you an example like LSD
affects your visual you know
phenomenology it affects your audio
phenomenology it affects your tactile
phenomenology you know and and there's
something kind of similar about that you
you know like if you introspect them
like okay like the the the body feeling
on LSD is kind of the same vibratory
tone as it were as as what's happening
in the visual field right but but
there's also differences but but there's
similarities right so so it would be
just very parsimonious you know aam's
razor would be very beautiful if we can
explain that kind of like diversity of
effects with just one simple kind of
like coupling kernel induced by the
substance and you know ultimately it's
not going to be that simple um because
you know different systems will have
like
different uh divisive normalization and
as a consequence you know different
coupling kernels but I do think that you
know to a first approximation you know
we will be able to do something like
characterize LSD in terms of a coupling
kernel in a crossmodal fashion meaning
in a way that um works the same in
different sensory modalities and and
even different systems entirely like for
example the the the cardiovascular
system I mean that is one of the very
fascinating things I've learned recently
that you know the vascular system is um
very active and it's not just the heart
you know there's these smooth muscle
cells that are essentially modulating
the the the Vaso um dilation and
constriction and and there's serotonin
mediated you know with 5hd 1A and 5hd 2A
as as key neurotransmitters that that
modulate some of those you know circuit
level uh activity which would cash out
in terms of divisive normalization and
as a consequence into coupling kernel so
we we're we're developing effectively a
paradigm for making sense of how waves
different types of waves may be
traveling in your cardiovascular system
as a function of taking a particular
substance so anyway to me this is
utterly mind-blowing and and and
potentially massive explanatory power
with with just very simple principles uh
which is what we want in science of
course um okay but but but there's more
I recently made made a video and I've
written about this you know this concept
that we are calling projective
intelligence um you know I recommend
watching the video because this a little
bit more we'll go into like more more
depth although in this video this kind
of like gets contextualized within the
overall recent paradigms that we're
exploring at qri well the overall idea
here is that a lot of what conscious
8/17
