From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


intelligence is about is the interaction
between Fields with different
dimensionalities and top ologies so
there is a constant kind of like Drive
in your overall conscious system to sync
up and reduce the kind of like error
signals between your visual field and
your tactile field and and I hope that
makes sense rather that like when when
you see something and you try to grab it
you know you're you're kind of like
anticipating tactile Sensations right
like you're anticipating a somatic
feeling as a consequence of that
movement so in fact you know this is an
Insight that originally came from Roger
theel and and West and Brian Scott and
Cube Fleer and uh um Asher
araki in the Canada Retreat uh Q
sponsored and for yeah researching
meditation and exotic States Of
Consciousness that
effectively you know almost always you
know visual Sensations are somatically
tracked that part of what allows you to
have kind of like a visual working
memory is that you you associate and you
anchor you know Visual qualia and
geometry to tactile Sensations and and
maybe that is essential for object
permanence you know I've talked to
people with Autism for example who who
have difficulties with object permanence
and it might be because that connection
is a little bit severed or broken and
doesn't work entirely that that visual
Sensations are not necessarily super
well tracked by somatic Sensations and
of course that's going to generate a lot
of very strange kind of like errors and
and deficiencies very hard to diagnose
um but effectively I would um describe
that as kind of like a a failure mode of
projective intelligence in this context
that visual Sensations are not being
somatically track in in a in a proper
way uh and there's a bunch of things
that must happen uh for that to to to to
be the case you know like you know the
anticipation of somatic Sensations must
be finally tuned with the visual
Sensations and then on top of that uh
projective transformations in the visual
field you know like as you move around
like a a cup in your visual field the
the the same kind of like projective
transformations in that visual field
must in some sense correspond to
projective transformations in the
somatic
field and very crucially here um these
have different dimensionalities you know
and the visual field to a first
approximation is you know like one I
mean two dimens you know it's kind of
like this flat surface and if you
actually relax completely you know in
meditation if you let go entirely in
like Jana practice and you get absorbed
into Infinite Space or infinite
Consciousness or you know into Universal
Consciousness thank you Asher for this
t-shirt a very wonderful gift um then
actually your visual field becomes
flattened right so so in fact embodiment
you know the feeling of being someone
and
somewhere uh where you have like a depth
to your visual field that requires some
degree of somatic tension so the main
thing that I'm trying to communicate
here is that there is an extraordinarily
deep connection between um the the
relationship between fields of different
dimensionalities like you know two
dimensions in the visual field three
dimensions in the sematic field um and
and the intercoupling between those the
the projection or mapping between those
fields onto each other um and you know
intelligence you know conscious
processing uh the the embodiment of a
multi-sensory world
so
now the next um kind of like Insight
here and it's still part of the same
point is that the way in which these
different fields can talk to each other
with
hypothesize is by modulating the
projection and the coupling kernel and
if you want to dive kind of like very
deep into this particular hypothesis I
recommend uh reading our paper on
meditation meditative Sensations so it
turns out that yeah if you meditate a
lot um you go very deep into
concentration there are these like very
special moments where everything
disappears uh this also happens in high
do 5o DMT um and when everything
disappears um what we're hypothesizing
is happening is that you're finding a
projection from one of these fields onto
another and also finding a coupling
kernel in both of those fields in such a
way that the waves in each of those
fields can interlock perfectly with each
other and they look the same uh and we
have yeah like some some honestly yeah
9/17
