From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


quite beautiful simulations here of uh
being able to kind of like rotate a
three-dimensional lattice uh effectively
representing theed resonant modes of a
threedimensional system like the somatic
field and then also being able to kind
of like uh look at a distance function
that is on the screen meaning that is 2D
effectively representing the geometry of
the visual field and then we show that
there are particular projections like
for example looking at the cube from one
of the corners until it looks actually
kind of like a hexagon um and particular
combinations of coupling kernels in both
the 3D space and the 2D space where all
of a sudden it's impossible to tell if
the system is two-dimensional or
three-dimensional that is what we think
is kind of these like very high veence
you know very
bful uh kind of like State of
Consciousness that lacks prediction
errors and and therefore there's just no
information content you know in some
sense like there's nothing that is
happening because everything is
perfectly in sync and it is you know
it's very difficult to actually find
those those States Of Consciousness
because there's a combinatorial
explosion of possible projections from
one field onto another and and on top of
that a combinatorial explosion of
possible combinations of coupling
kernels so a cessation would actually be
a really special configuration like it
would be the right coupling kernels and
the right projection in such a way that
the waves look the same in both um yeah
I think I think that was an important
Insight that yeah I had I had last year
and uh we we formerly wrote it up and
you know it's going to I think keep keep
U explaining a lot of things you know
like yeah even things like
U uh reactivations on fiveo DMT like
they might involve kind of like priming
the system to um enter configurations
where there's kind of this the right
projection and the right coupling kernel
such that like the waves look the same
in in different
fields now you know this is mostly
analyzing yeah you know the visual
system the tactile system of course
there's also the auditory system and
there's like other fields as well if you
go you know if you go by shenen Young's
kind of like carving of the stat SP of
Consciousness um qualia Fields there's
at least kind of like these like six
fields which is a uh inner and outer see
hear and and feel you know with for
example feel has like the the outer
component which is tactile Sensations
and the inner component which is
emotions um there's also of course like
you know scent you know o Rose tulsy
M scent qualia you know and all of those
you know would essentially correspond to
different dimensionalities different
geometries and they would have different
coupling kernels and so a true sensation
you know does require a lot of
fine-tuning you know it's not is not
just the visual and tactile Fields
although those may be some of kind of
the principal components some of the
things you absolutely need to get right
and then the other things might be more
kind of like the the details Perhaps
Perhaps okay so the next point where
yeah it starts to to in some sense
connect with metaphysics and have big
important solutions to problems in in in
philosophy of mind is yeah the
topological solution to the boundary
problem um I'm not going to go very deep
into this because I've talked a lot you
know I've talked at length about these
um lots of Articles and videos and you
know peer- reviewed paper on these with
Chris spy as a collaborator and but what
I'm going to say is that you know if you
start out with kind of like a Field view
of pan psychism
where the universe is a gigantic field
of Consciousness then you have the
boundary problem which is okay if we're
all one if we're all this gigantic field
of Consciousness how come you are there
and and I'm here and we're kind of like
different moments of experience
different perspectives how how is this
possible aren't we all the same
field well um uh the solution that we
have here is that you know the field um
is effectively something like a vector
field where you know there's kind of
like Arrow at every point and there's
many formulations here and many ways of
arriving at field topology but you know
this is a a relatively simple one that
aligns with the electromagnetic field um
and you know effectively there are
things you can do to the field that
changes up the topology of the field um
in
particular with electric oscillations
10/17
