From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


you can essentially create like vortices
in the magnetic field and you know
vortices in the magnet field is just
kind of the simplest example of how to
create kind of like a change in the
field topology and there's many other
ways of doing this um and I'm not
married to any particular one you know I
I just think there's going to be some
field topology property um but you know
bices is is is a great kind of like
entryway into like okay this is
falsifiable and maybe even physically
plausible and and the the the core idea
would be something like you know you
know how like in the sun you know you
have kind of this huge FL tubes these
plasma tubes you know is not just kind
of like a sphere but you have these
protuberances right and and it's crazy
that when a solar flare happens or
what's called a coronal mass ejection um
you know when the sun kind of like spews
you know like millions of tons of hot
plasma into outer space um that is the
result of a top topological
transformation a macroscopic topological
transformation which is very significant
because most people tend to think well
maybe topology matters at the
microscopic level you know maybe at the
level of atoms and molecules but what
we're saying here is that the field
topology actually has macroscopic top
down effects uh at the level of you know
the size of one of these coronal mass
ejections which is like much larger than
for example the planet Earth um so
massive massive massive massive things
um and uh and the way in which this
happens is that you know the the flux
tubes will be kind of like trapping
plasma but then if they touch then the
magnetic field lines exchange partners
and and then when that happens you you
essentially kind of like release these
uh trapped plasma which was what's
called topologically confined by the
shape of the field um okay so that that
is just kind of like a good example of
the sort of thing that I suspect is
happening in the brain that the brain at
least some deep parts of it perhaps the
the thalamus and the lateral gen nucleus
um together maybe the thalamocortical
loop um something deep and very
fundamental for being awake um or
dreaming I mean effectively conscious uh
kind of like as a unified moment of
experience the the neural macroscopic
neural oscillations are causing these
electric oscillations that result in
looping structures in the
electromagnetic field and these looping
structures they're not a phenomenal you
know the moment you actually make these
looping structures and you trap energy
then you have the resonant modes
inside these looping structures and and
you have this holistic Behavior you have
something that behaves as more than the
sum of its
parts especially as I will touch upon in
the end um if you add something like a
path integral formulation of like what
is going on with you know light and and
electrons moving around in these Pockets
um but even even without that you know
you do have kind of this emergent
holistic more than the sum of the parts
Behavior with objective boundaries that
are causally significant they they they
have like computational properties uh
and we think you know that is what
solves the boundary problem that like
these looping structures is creating is
what is creating an inside and an
outside with kind of like a an objective
clear boundary um would be wonderful if
this is the case because it solves so
many philosophical problems all at once
um the next point is electromagnetic
field topology
modulation which is is a if indeed you
know something like the coupling kernel
is modulating you know the the way in
which electric activity of these
oscillators um the relative phase
between them as a function of the
distance as you you can see in some of
these
simulations what happens is that um you
can use the coupling kernel not only to
determine kind of like how sprinkly or
how like uniform the the traveling waves
or the chaotic processes in in in kind
of these like oscillatory Dynamics are
you can also use the coupling kernel and
hear these very well you can also use
the coupling kernel to modulate the
field
topology that if you apply kind of these
like uh on off center surround lateral
inhibition type of coupling kernel um
you may get lots of different vortices
or maybe kind of these nested structures
of vortices that then are going to be
trying to interact with each other and
minimiz the energy which is what phys
physics is always trying to do um but in
11/17
