From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


this very exotic topology whereas for
example if you make all of the
oscillators go up and down at the same
time then uh instead as a consequence uh
what you will have
is just one gigantic
Vortex uh or or sometimes not even a
Vortex I mean especially if you have
like a a clear kind of like a boundary
uh or like a circle for example and you
have like this macroscopic coupling
kernel that goes up and down all at once
that actually may raise the internal
topology and makes it make it entirely
flat which effectively maybe
subjectively corresponds to complete ego
dissolution you know or or complete
emptiness there just no manufacturing of
internal boundaries you know maybe maybe
associated with kind of like a full
complete mystical experience right plus
four in the shulan
scale so that is very important you know
just to recap you can modulate the
electromagnetic field topology with a
coupling kernel which okay all of the
pieces of the puzzle are starting to
become assembled very exciting right
well and and importantly you know the
way in which the field topology will be
modulated by a given kernel depends on
the geometry of the network so again
there's going to be some characteristic
ways in which you know the oscillations
in electromagnetic field will be tuning
into field topologies which is going to
be different then what is happening in
the somat sensory cortex or the visual
field all depend you know even if you're
using the same kernel all depending on
the particular Network geometry of these
subsystems and of course then where it
becomes really non-trivial and
fascinating is how they couple to each
other you know how they project onto
each other map onto each other um so
yeah this is where okay we might be
really starting to get kind of like a
lot of traction for like how a
drug causes these crazy effects on the
field
in a reliable predictable way right like
why this is the next Point why five a
DMT may actually be reliably something
that for example causes topological
simplification and you know I'm actually
going to not go very deep into these
because I don't want to bias you too
much I mean there's like some studies
that we want to run and uh I don't want
to give you sort of like exactly what is
the answer that we expect um I don't you
know I don't think that that matters all
that much because most of the people who
GNA be answering are surveys and studies
you know are not going to get to this
part of the video and so on you know but
you know um I I will give you kind of
like the overall arching kind of like
idea here which I think has explanatory
power and that is you know on 5 DMT
often times people report yeah maybe
they become kind of this huge Taurus
right or or sometimes they just become a
point or just a big pin wheel or or
sometimes like not even that maybe they
feel kind of like all of their attention
field lines as it we like become
perfectly aligned or something like that
well that effectively maps on to
something like a a topological
simplification process where you have
like fewer vertices that that you used
to have and there's going to be a
characteristic kernel here and what we
want to find out and and and really
write a research uh on this year is to
see if we can square something like the
divisive normalization low level effects
together with an understanding of the
network geometry and topology of
different subsystems
in such a way that we can you know
predict and generate the same visual and
tactile phenomenology that is actually
reported by people who you know have
experience with 5mo
DMT again this would be amazing because
it's like the marriage even if it
doesn't work out right like even just as
a as an you know you know wide Blue Sky
attempt at kind of like marrying you
know kind of like third person
neuroscience and first person taking
phenomenology seriously kind of like
approaches
you know finally you have like one way
of creating a bridge even if the bridge
is completely wrong I mean I still think
it's very worth it and it's it's very
much a milestone a new way of thinking
of how to tackle this problem which yeah
again even even if we're wrong I I still
consider it a sort of accomplishment
although yeah it's next level if we can
actually make it work um yeah you know
the next point is just a little bit of
yeah kind of this observation that you
know if the couling kernel effectively
is tuning into specific field topology
12/17
