From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


then the field topology would have like
top down effects as well so you're kind
of like sculping the field topology I
mean it's kind of like you know if you
have like a Reaver which is maybe the
laminer flow so to speak of of the
electromagnetic field you know if you
put a bunch of rocks in the river and
and and you have kind of like foam and
turbulence you know you're you're
effectively affecting the the topology
you see of the way the field lines the
the laminer flow in in in the water uh
is interacting with each other and and
that has like top down causal effects
right like if you can keep the flow of
the water in the river perfectly laminer
and kind of like parallel with each
other then you will have a certain kind
of behavior for the raver you know and
the river is going to be carving
particular paths uh whereas if it's full
of rocks and you get turbulence then the
paths that he's going to be generating
is going to be different maybe it's
going to Branch out more well I I don't
know I'm not geophysicist but you know I
think that's the sort of thing that you
observe that like if you add turbulence
the the top down effects of the reer are
different right so and and more so it it
will feed into kind of like how you know
the raver in the future gets carved and
and so you may discover more rocks for
example that you know maintains the
turbulence or or or it may be
self-defeating you know maybe turbulence
generates laminar flow which generates
turbulence which generates laminar flow
you know something along those lines and
so I strongly suspect that by modulating
the field topology with a kernel you
then will modulate the kernel with field
topology and this connects with I mean
essentially yeah the next level of what
we call near and kneeling which we coed
it now as neural field the kneeling
where effectively you know what happens
when you do a lot of Jana meditation you
know this very concentration Blissful
States Of Consciousness is that you're
tuning not only into kind of like a
macroscopic atory Dynamic you're tuning
into a field Dynamic you know a a wave
function you're you're tuning into waves
for the field to evolve over time and
and and that has like top down effects
and so you know I think I think kernels
can therefore be used to tune into field
topologies that then affect the kernels
themselves because of things like heavy
and learning you know neurons that fire
together they together so the more you
play with a particular kernel the more
you create a topology a kernel
consistent topology which in turn will
be reinforcing that kernel and that
might explain things such as yeah
reactivation effects okay the next point
is yeah a little bit of a deeper dive
into something like DMT and 5mo DMT and
you know the main thing I want to drive
home here is that yeah maybe the sense
of you know entities you know the sense
of uh Hey DMT is kind of like an
ecosystem system of consciousnesses that
might very well be um a side effect of
increased topological complexity that
you know within the boundary the
topological pocket that you are of the
field if you have a bunch of vortices
that effectively kind of like functions
as different observers in the field uh
you know ultimately there's just one
Observer and like you know maybe open
individualism is is true in a certain
sense that we're all one we're all the
field but the way in which Sensations
get rendered depends on the number of
anchor points or kind of like this uh
pavots within the the topology of the
field and and every Vortex is kind of a
particular perspective for the rest of
the field and and you know the field
requires these perspectives requires
these anchor points to kind of be able
to observe itself in a way that breaks
the Symmetry whereas yeah you know like
topological
simplification May on the other hand
create this uh Power feeling of kind of
a superposition of all possible paths
all at once and and I suspect that yeah
you know classic Buddhist Awakening and
F DMT maybe are much more related to
that related to topological
simplification where there isn't an
anchor point there isn't a sense of self
that you can use to kind of like observe
and break the symmetry of the field if
you can't break the symmetry of the
field you just have a superposition of
all POS possible points of view at the
same time and this takes me yeah to the
last Point uh which
is um the path integral you
know yeah I mean how does light you know
find the shortest path you know or how
how how does an electron you know find
the shortest path you know when you when
13/17
