From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


you have a Tesla coil right like and
you're kind of like playing with it and
and and you put your finger close to it
like how does it know to actually touch
your finger right like it's almost you
know finean Richard man would put it as
it's almost as if the electrons can kind
of like smell their surroundings in a
way and it is very non-trivial I mean
this is a a very very fascinating topic
and and it's complex but I'm going to
add a link in the description for a a
video that sort of explains how this
happens and you know the very
parsimonious way to explain this is that
well actually electrons and light they
go through every possible path at once
it just so happens that most of them end
up canceling each other out their their
amplitudes end up um for any given path
you can find like another path with kind
of like equal you know amplitude that
cancels it out except in What's called
the the um extremes which are like
shortest paths and longest
paths saddle paths as well I'm not going
to get into but but but it is
fascinating that in in in fact light
very often doesn't only go through the
shortest path it also goes through the
longest path um something that you can
observe you know in a in a mirror room
for example you you will observe that
yes if there is a longest path that
light can take you will also see it take
that path which you know breaks a lot of
intuitions and and you require something
like this and and path integral I guess
for for those who haven't heard this
this term it means you're kind of like
taking the integral of paths so integral
is kind of like you know the the area
under the curve um and rather than let's
say like you know the thing that you're
Computing is kind of like an area under
the curve you're kind of like Computing
the summation of all possible paths and
their
amplitudes well I think this is actually
the way also to explain one of the key
causal roles of Consciousness that in in
in in the current qri model a moment of
experience is actually kind of the
superposition of all of the allowed
paths within a topological pocket and I
think this is actually necessary to
explain phenomenology because often
times like let's say for example on on
LSD you you may find yourself in in a
situation where there's these very
complex fractal structures that are
happening and then you kind of like see
them from a certain angle and everything
collapses into just one point meaning
that you know in configuration space of
NE activity very complex fractal
structures are right neighbors you know
to just point like States Of
Consciousness and and the only way in
which I can make sense of this you know
especially taking phenomenal binding
seriously you know that like hey this
this is kind of like happening all at
once that all of those pieces of
information are put together
simultaneously the only way I can make
sense of that is that you know it is
something
like you know what is it like to be a
particular person is what is the
superposition of all possible paths
within the pocket that is being carved
out thanks to the oscillatory Dynamics
of let's say the electric field um and
then uh what happens is that any kind of
like symmetry breaking within that
pocket is essentially kind of like
observed from every Point within that
pocket and and so there's a lot of
configurations actually especially when
you're getting to kind of like fairly
simple
configurations where you're going to
have kind of these infinite laes right
because I mean think about it like if if
you're like in the surface of a Taurus
you know the surface of a of a donut and
there's like one black spot somewhere or
maybe two black spots just to make it
more more clear
um and you look at that from a
particular point you know you may say
like oh there's one black spot over
there there's one black spot over there
um but if what's actually happening is
you're you're kind of like the
superposition of all of the possible
points of view within the Taurus you're
going to see like kind of like an
infinite grid you know in some context
actually you're going to see like a
lattice of points not in this particular
example but in very similar examples um
or or for example like yeah if um if you
think of like what is it like to be a
cube you know and and you're looking at
it from the point of view of a path
integral you know all possible
perspectives within the cube if the cube
is perfectly symmetrical it only has one
14/17
