From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


corner right because you cannot
distinguish between the corners but like
as you're approaching kind of this
perfectly symmetrical Cube you will have
like this multiple Corners suddenly kind
of like align and collapse into just one
and likewise you know in the surface of
a Taurus the moment you actually remove
these imperfections you know these tiny
defects in the
field then all of a sudden you just have
like nothingness you know because you
used to have kind of this like lattice
of imperfections this infinite lattice
of how it looks like from every point of
view at once but then you remove that
imperfection and then the whole thing
collapses why because now every
perspective looks the same and so
effectively you know this might also be
a way of arriving at something like the
Symmetry Theory veence by by Mike in in
a rigorous bottomup way which is that if
hey the nature of the universe is this
kind of like maximum entropy path
integral
superpositions then if you can actually
achieve perfect symmetries that entails
in fact kind of like a a a collaps of
what it is like to be that because every
point of view within you know a pocket
that is perfectly symmetrical looks
exactly the same and so yeah you know
very Advanced janas and and and Peak 5o
DMT experiences may be the result of
simplifying the field topology to such
an extent that all of a sudden all the
perspectives within that pocket look
exactly the same okay so that is yeah
the very very big picture uh I'm just
going to kind of yeah like recap because
I know it's a lot um you know first of
all the couple in kernel that it's it's
a way of uh effectively controlling
systems of coupled oscillators by
modulating the coupling constant uh for
oscillators at different distances and
coupling constant here is hey do you
want to be in the same phase or opposite
phase you know you want to be the same
color or a different
color then you know we show that uh
using a coupling kernel you can modulate
whole field resonant
modes uh so that's kind of like the
neural to Global Bridge um and you know
you can rigorously show this uh and so
you have kind of like this connection
with maybe something like divisive
normalization going from the lowlevel
you know system architecture to Global
resonant modes perhaps being able to
explain empirical data like connectum
specific harmonic waves uh on
psychedelics where you show hey LSD
produces higher amplitude in the high
frequencies um as well as just more
energy overall um then uh we have this
kind of yeah geometric constraints on
coupling effects that the effect that a
given coupling kernel has is a function
of not only the coupling kernel but also
the geometry and topology of the network
that it is affecting um which is a very
parsimonious way of maybe accounting for
the zoo of effects of
psychedelics then there is yeah Network
geometry interactions and projective
intelligence how a lot of conscious
processing may actually be about the way
these different fields with different
dimensionalities interact with each
other and how they can couple together
they project they map onto each other
and you modulate the coupling kernel uh
in such a way that errors or prediction
errors are minimized um then in turn you
know there's a topological solution to
the boundary problem um which we then
connect with coupling kernels and how by
modulating the coupling kernels in
particular geometries um gives rise to
Global topological boundaries as well as
local internal topological boundaries um
and then in turn these May account for
perhaps the subjective differences
between DMT and FAO DMT and different
psychedelics maybe even ketamine
ketamine I didn't really touch upon it
but I suspect it's actually a temporal
kernel I'm not going to not going to go
there but you know maybe in a future
video um and then finally to wrap up all
of these kind of um perspectives
literally we talk about the the path
integral of perspectives that within a
topological pocket what is it like you
know the what in principia qualia by by
Mike Johnson you know it was defined as
qualia formalism you know this idea that
there are mathematical objects that map
onto moments of experience and and their
phenomenology that that mapping uh it's
a new hypothesis by by me and others at
Q that like that mapping the the the
solution to Quia formalism is through
path integrals that you have this field
topology and then to interpret that
field topology as an experience what you
do is you superimpose all of the
15/17
