From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


possible paths within it
and and if you do that then you have
yeah enormous explanatory power and you
may be able finally to really have an
explanation for why substances that are
so similar produce radically different
effects there are like mystical you know
in nature like why does it feel like
we're all one on 5mo DMT why does it
feel like it's an ecosystem of
intelligences on
DMT in summary because different
substances uh produce changes in the
low-level circuitry which causes
different coupling kernels which tune
into different Global resonant modes
which modulate the field topology which
in
turn um gets processed through different
path integrals and then you get the
phenomenology um and and finally you
know the last thing I will say here is
that uh that Global Effect that uh kind
of like changing topology then feeds
back causally so actually the the the
boundaries and the experiences that you
have because of the path integral nature
um they are really more than the sum of
the parts it's not a it's not a metaphor
it's not like in Conway's Game of Life
or in acceler automaton where you know
you can kind of squint your eyes and
think of it as more than the Su of the
parts but really the system is still
just accounted for by these like
lowlevel interactions like no no no no
when you're talking about path integrals
um you really truly have more than the
sum of the parts um in a completely
non-trivial way and that my friends is
why we are conscious because we're
actually providing non-trivial
computational leverage on biological
organisms for their survival H but you
know hopefully we can actually break
free from the replicator imperative and
yeah essentially aim towards uh the
values of Consciousness team
Consciousness okay with that I mean I
just want to yeah say kind of like thank
you to to people uh who have yeah been
supportive uh recently you know
especially there's like so many people
to to thank of course but um yeah you
know like the director of operations
Hunter Meer uh you know none of these
would be possible without uh him and his
wife uh Crystal um you know uh Maggie
and and Anders uh emiline have been um
yeah you know Anders died unfortunately
but uh uh you know super supportive you
know marsin uh as well David Pierce wins
strong more recently David Langer um and
you know people who helped with the
Amsterdam Meetup you know uh I want to
mention yellak Teel
um you know uh Joel Diaz Noah Clark Teo
Torsten uh George feure Carl Heiden
Smith um Marco ail of course for yeah
making a presentation about divisive
normalization and Chaos at at the event
uh zo's t uh aidea uh more broadly the
Psychedelic Nexus um yeah and and
longterm contributors like you know
people like um scry and symmetric Vision
taru uh honin uh Emil Hall um Rudolphs
balers um and uh David Lobster uh who
developed brain candy and Cosmic sugar
um the people who are collaborating for
uh doing studies with couple kernels now
in Academia including uh well in this
project that's called
viscerality um
viscerality uh by George feaser Mesmer
prism um David Lobster tar symmetric
Vision um Selica who featured in the in
the amster Meetup by John desnoyer
Stewart um contrast features by
Lo sorry I'm sorry for for not exactly
being able to pronounce anoun that and
and yeah till holdap Phil who has been
really really helpful uh especially as
of late and yeah I mean actually I also
want to highlight Emil hall because he
um uh has been really really really
instrumental in um advancing essentially
this Paradigm uh in what we're calling
the replication tool which um you're
going to hear more about this but
essentially we're creating you know from
scratch this really powerful engine to
be able to replicate you know the visual
and also down the line the tactile
effects of different psychedelics uh
with therapeutic applications as well as
well crazy artistic applications I
mean and there's going to be some events
where I'm going to be like DJing you
know different Trice psychedelic
patterns in combination with music uh at
parties and I think this is going to be
a big deal I mean I think it's going to
change how people in Academia in science
uh artists meditators how they think of
different states of consciousness I see
a Revolution coming I'm calling it The
coupling kernels Revolution um which
yeah it's all it's all fascinating and
very exciting so um I guess yeah the
last thing is uh uh yes please join us
16/17
