From Neural Activity to Field Topology: How Coupling Kernels Shape Consciousness

Feb 21, 2025

Andrés Gómez Emilsson


in the Q&A uh for the Q Discord in a
couple days more Broly yeah just
interact with us in the the Q Discord um
and yeah the Cyber delic Nexus is going
to be uh essentially holding a wonderful
event where they're going to be using
the the coupling kernels for decorating
a really impressive artistic Dome um and
uh I'm going to put a link in the
description about that um the seber
delic society uh so yeah I mean we're
collaborating with um yeah various other
nonprofits and uh artist collectives to
yeah make this you know actually super
awesome and mind-blowing as well uh in
other words yeah the first applications
of like rigorous mathematics from you
know first principles and taking
phenomenology seriously to how to
actually yeah change the world make it
much better so with that thank you so
much for yeah sticking around and seeing
this whole this whole video
um infinite please everybody and I'll
talk to you uh on another time on
another topic take care everybody

17/17
